#Importance of using primary sources in the study of Latin

The ability to physically touch something gives way to a truer, more personal relationship with an object and the history associated with that object.  In my own experience, standing in the Colosseum can imbue one with a feeling of connectedness, the weight of all the history that happened in that very spot, and a strong sense of the very real people who walked through that dust before.  Artifacts once held by ancient hands can provide the same feeling.

However, although touch is *powerful*, it is not always *possible*.  It goes without saying that not every Latin student can jet off to Rome and walk in the footsteps of Caesar - I was not lucky enough to do so until my 7th year of studying the language.  Fortunately, the digital age has provided us with thousands of ways to reach and connect with these artifacts and places - online.  We can, in a way, digitally "touch" objects or "walk" through dusty streets that are in reality whole worlds away.  Perhaps we lose something when we lose physical touch, but in digital archives we gain so much more.  

The use of primary sources aims to give beginning Latin students the ability to "touch" Ancient Roman artifacts and perhaps gain a sense of the related people and places.  The language is as much an artifact as the artifacts themselves.  The Latin is permanently intertwined with the objects.  It is the hope that, as a result, Latin as a historical language will truly become **real**.
