#The Digital Classroom

This project is so technologically focused that it raises the question: how can we implement this technology in a classroom setting, particularly in an introductory language course?  When a teacher can create his or her own source material and distribute it, does that change the way the students and teacher interact with the material?  With a project like this, a teacher can easily create guides and workbooks that play directly into what he or she does in the classroom, so there is a continuity of teaching style.  In addition, all the information from the teacher is available to anyone with an internet connection.  It does not require special tools or programs to be viewed.  The worries about conflicting operating systems and the excuse "I couldn't open the file" are virtually erased, because everything is written in simple text format that can be viewed in any browser.

The accessibility of the material also lends itself to collaborative learning, inside and outside the classroom.  A class repository in a version control system would be a simple but effective was to collect work and track changes.  For example, this project uses GitHub to store all its data.  On GitHub, anyone can "fork" a repository, which is to get a personal copy of everything in it.  Then, each person with a forked repository can add to or edit the data and submit a "pull request" to send their changes back into the main repository - in a classroom setting, these requests can be accepted or rejected by the teacher.  All changes are tracked and attributed to the person who made them, so nothing is anonymously changed and nothing is accidentally deleted that cannot be retrieved.

Within a repository, students can create their own guides or practice exercises and even correct each other's work.  The teacher monitors all the changes, makes sure the students are going in the right direction, and can add his or her own corrections.  Working in a version control system repository like GitHub allows students to work together and reinforce each other outside the classroom - like all the material in this project, it only requires an internet connection.

However, this technology also has implications inside the classroom.  Perhaps every student has an iPad for school use.  In this classroom, technology like Apple's Airplay make it very easy to have exercises that include annotating or sharing the visual material.  A teacher could, in a matter of seconds, switch from her own display to a student's in order to share what that student has found.  A class based in epigraphy relies heavily on visual evidence, and in a situation like this every student is able to interact with that evidence digitally and share his or her findings with the class.  The process of reading an inscription becomes less just listening to the teacher and more of an interactive, collaborative experience.  The classroom feels less like just another activity and more like research, where every voice matters and anyone could discover something new.

In another classroom, where there is only one screen, the teacher can still reinforce paradigms with visual evidence from the epigraphic material.  Lessons can revolve around artifacts, which bring in history and culture along with grammatical concepts.  Homework can become mini-research projects, in which students have to decipher inscriptions, and they can do so collaboratively on GitHub.  Students can create presentations including visual evidence and historical background, as well as reviewing a grammatical topic.  The process of learning Latin becomes more visual, more interactive, and, because of the focus on technology, it feels more relevant in the digital age.

In any classroom, even in introductory language classrooms, there is power in reinforcing what is being taught with visual evidence and collaborative research.  In language in particular, students learn from examples - and when these examples are visual and interactive, they only become more memorable.  When learning a new language, students need something to grab onto, something more than just another chart of verb conjugations.  A classroom with technology like this opens up the possibility for a thousand different things to grab onto - the student just has to pick one.