#The Editing Process

Each inscription in this project is paired with a digital diplomatic edition of the text of the inscription.  This kind of edition of any work is written in XML, or Extensible Markup Language.  

In print editions of texts, inscriptions or other larger texts, editors often use visual formatting (e.g. the Leiden Conventions) to encode information about a text, such as gaps or abbreviations.  However, visual formatting is not adaptable and it cannot be read by a computer.  Now that editions of texts can be made available digitally, if the texts will allow themselves to be automated we have the opportunity to run different automated analyses on large corpora of work.  Markup language, such as XML, makes this possible.  In addition, writing editions in markup language does not tie the editor to any one visual presentation.  An edition in XML is a source text, and decisions about how it should look can be made and changed without affecting the source text.  Digital diplomatic editions like this are also not stuck to a certain environment or program, like a word processor.  An XML edition is easily integrated into many other things, and it lends itself well to work in [version control systems][github].  Also, when it comes to the actual text of an edition, a digital diplomatic edition has no ambiguity.  Where a print text will identify titles, foriegn words, emphasized words, etc., with italics, a digital diplomatic edition written in XML has specific identifiers for each item.  When an edition is written in markup language, there is no question about what the editor thinks the text is saying.  Finally, the editions written in markup are completely citable, down to each line number, and when they are automatically analyzed by a morphological parser, they are citable down to the specific word.

[github]: versioncontrol.md

The text editions in this project are all digital diplomatic editions, within which personal names, places, and abbreviations are identified.  To this, I have added a few manual layers of analysis.  I created a set of narrow grammatical topics, such as the perfect active indicative or the nominative first declension singular, and connected those topics to examples in the images using Prof. Blackwell's and Prof. Smith's Image Citation Service.  Then, I grouped these narrow topics under larger concepts, such as the perfect or the nominative, to allow for easier access into the material.  It is my goal that all the material is searchable, adaptable, and citable.  All options for searching the material can be found [on the search page][search].

[search]: search.html  