#The RDF Graph

All of the information in this project is organized in an RDF graph.  RDF, which stands for Resource Description Framework, is a simple way to organize information on the semantic web.  Every piece of information is part of a "triple".  A triple is essentially a sentence which can be expressed with a "subject", "verb", and "object".  For example, in this project, we often see the relationship of a particular grammatical topic to a section of an image. In RDF, this relationship is expressed as "section of image" (subject) "illustrates" (verb) "grammatical topic" (object).  The relationship can be flipped on its head, as well ("grammatical topic" "is illustrated by" "section of image").  These relationships are stored in tables and used to create graphs of related data.

We elected to use RDF formatting for this data because it allows for easy manipulation and future development.  Think about the map as a physical object.  We have two points, a "section of image" and a "grammatical topic", which are connected by a verb.  Now, we can build off either one of those points with different verbs to create a larger graph.  For example, the "section of image" may be "part of" a "larger image", or may "contain" a certain "text of an inscription".  The "larger image" may "show" some "famous monument", and that "famous monument" may have been "built by" this "historical character", and so on.  There are endless possibilities for growth and development, and so long as everything remains in triple format, it is very simple to jump from one section of the graph to another.

In addition, each piece of data is identified by a unique URN.  A URN is similar to a website's URL address, in that it is a unique identifier of a piece of data.  However, while a URL points to the location of that piece, a URN only names the piece.  It is location- (and consequently system-) independent.

So, we have a large graph of URNs linked to other URNs, which are linked to even more URNs, and so on.  What is the point?

All the information is interconnected, the relationships between the information are clearly defined and accessible (you do not have to be a programmer to read it), and the data is able to be used and added to depending on the need of the user.  Basically, it is a big map of connections - we just have to pick a point of entry, and then we can follow those connections anywhere.

Personally, I am considering how one could use the map as a teaching tool.  What points of entry are the most efficient, or the most user-friendly?  How can a teacher adapt this map to work with his or her own curriculum or textbook?  First, there is the grammatical topic entrance.  Starting from the larger grammatical categories (such as the ablative, or the perfect tense), we can move to narrower topics (such as first declension singular instances of the ablative) to find images of exempla in the inscriptions, if a teacher is looking for examples of paradigms or practice sentences.

Second, there is the vocabulary entrance.  The project includes digital editions of the texts of every inscription in the collection, and in those editions we can tokenize the Latin words in the texts.  As a result, the editions are not only citable down to the individual line, but searchable by word as well.  A teacher could find inscriptions that use the same or similar vocabulary to that in the class's textbook.  The teacher could supplement the textbook or create classroom and homework exercises that do not introduce an overwhelming amount of new vocabulary, but that go along with just what the students have been learning.

There is also potential for entrance into the data by particular historical characters, who are being identified and tagged in the digital editions, or by location of the artifacts, which have mappable coordinates thanks to the Pleiades project.  These kinds of entry into the data allow for a class or a lesson built around a particular theme, or historical thread.  

There are as many possibilities for viewing and adapting the material as there are pieces of data - it just depends on the needs of the classroom and the teacher.  This is the largest benefit of the RDF graph: adaptability.  The connections that are in place will not vary or change with time, because they are completely independent of location or of operating system.  New connections and information can be added - the map can become bigger and richer - but the points of entry will remain constant.